Idea: Many website operators are lazy, and will not register SK for their websites. It would be great, if SK could also improve the security for these websites.

The problem: As pointed out by Peter Eckersly at 28C3, one way to improve the security of SSL/TLS would be, if a client could check if the cerfiticate it receives from a server is also seen by other clients connecting to that server from different parts of the internet. That prevents simple man-in-the-middle attacks. In the current design of SK, a client cannot do this, if the hostname it connects to is not registered in a timeline server.

The solution: One could build an additional low security timeline server, that automatically registers the certificates it sees on the internet. Whenever a client makes a request for a name/protocol, the server tries to connect to that name with the given protocol, retrieves the certificate, and adds it to it's timeline. Then it sends a positive response to the client, and includes a new SK for that name. The client can then check, if the server certificate it has received corresponds to the certificate retrieved by the timeline server.

Design changes: Here, the signature on the server certificate using the SK cannot be included in the servers HTTPS certificate chain, because the server doesn't know anything about the existence of SK. So the protocol needs to be extended so that a mirror can optionally include that signature in a response. Including that signature should not be mandatory, so that a server operator using SK can easily upgrade to a new certificate, just by replacing the server certificate on his server, and updating the certificate chain with a new SK signature, and does not have to update the timeline server in parallel to that. One should keep in mind that it might take a while, until such an update has propagated to all mirrors so that a client connecting to the server in the meantime would see a SK warning.

Further considerations: It is unclear if SK should be extended for this purpose, or if it would be better to use a second independent system to perform these kind of checks.
