Attack: a country blocks requests to all mirrors except a subset that falsely
        omits certain sovereign key entries after a time T.

Defense: with small probability, make an async copy of your mirror query
         through Tor.  This way, clients will notice these attacks and cease
         trusting those mirrors.

Question: how bad would performance become if all mirror queries had
to be torified?

An alternative defense proposed by Erik Tews is to add a hash tree to the
timeline->mirror->client data path (it's added to the TFM, but maybe you want
two kinds of TFMs, small without hashtree and large with it).

The hash tree is computed over a timeline sorted in name order
([org,google,*],[org,google,mail]).  The blocksize should be one entry.
In order to check the hash tree we need all the entries for the name we're
querying, plus "one on either side".  Actually we don't need real entries on
either side: the algorithm can use some standard "begin [org,google,*]", "end
[org,google,*]" tokens for computing the hash tree, which saves us from
sending irrelevant entries over the wire.

The client->mirror query includes an additional request for which Timeline's
hash tree the client would like to see.  The mirror then sends an ordinary TFM
for all the Timelines except the one the client specified, for which it sends
the larger TFM with an embedded hash tree.  In order to prevent a collusion
attack clients need to be tenacious about their choice of a Timeline to query
next!

The additional size of the larger repose is hash size x log_2 (number SK
entries.  This is 600-700 bytes for a deployment on the scale of current TLS;
800-900 bytes for all existing domains using SKs with a lot of updates.
BUT it will suck when SHA1 dies.

Various tradeoffs how parameters for the hash tree could be chosen can be
found int his Google docs spreadsheet:

  * https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Ak_UqCvQqMRAdGVMTU9KRVZLQUFKUENyZzdfYUkzUEE

In a nutshell, using a 256 bit hash function and an 256 bit ECC signature
scheme, allows you to generate 65536 signatures in the hash tree, which should
take about 50 seconds on a 3.1 GHz i5 core, with a total size of 4.19 MB. And
you can embed everything you need to verify the request in 492 bytes, which
need to be included in the response to the client.

